So, let's now use the Sendgrid service
in order to send real emails to real email inboxes.
Rather than to our development inbox at Mailtrap.
And so, let's open up a new tab here
and search for Sendgrid and then it is here,
SendGrid.com
All right, so we can try it for free.
It will then have some limits
but you can still create a free account
from which you can send like, one hundred emails per day.
All right, so go ahead and create your account here
and once you're ready come back to this video.
Okay, and after creating your account
you should see your dashboard
that should look something like this, all right?
So you see there's a ton of stuff here on the left side
you can choose like templates, you can see all kinds
of statistics about the emails that you're sending.
And really, there is a ton of settings
that you can also set here, okay?
But for now, what we are interested in,
is in the Set up Guide.
Okay?
So here in the top left corner of your dashboard
you should have this menu here
where we then want to click the Set up Guide.
Now if the page at the time you're watching this video
looks somewhat different,
then you might also find the Set up Guide link
somewhere down here.
And in this case here on the sight side.
So let's open that up and now what we want to do is here
to integrate using our Web API or SMTP relay, all right?
And you could also easily integrate Sendgrid
into Wordpress or Drupal or something like that.
But of course, that's not what we want.
So here we want the first option
and then we want the SMTP Relay.
Because that is the one that we need
if we want to use node mailer
and create a transport with that.
And so that's exactly what we're doing
and so we choose this one.
On the other hand, we could also use
the simple to use Sendgrid API
and so then we would choose this way.
But again, with node mailer we need to choose
this option here.
And then from here it's very easy.
So here we just need to create an API key with some name.
And so that name is not really relevant at all,
so let's just call it "natours".
Create Key.
And so now to configure or transport a node mailer
all we need is actually this user name and this password.
So let's add these two to our config file
so I'm copying the password and the user name is "apikey."
So, config.env
and then everything that's related to emails,
let's put that here.
So SENDGRID
USERNAME
is apikey.
And Sendgrid PASSWORD
is this one.
And once more I really ask you
to create your own account and your own API key
and password instead of using mine, okay?
Because if many people do that,
it will quickly stop working for everyone, all right?
So please create your own account
and generate your own password, okay?
So there is actually enough for us to create or transport.
And so let's do that here,
so node mailer.createTransport.
And now, remember how I told you when we first created
this email handler a couple of seconds ago.
That there are some services that are already predefined.
And Sendgrid is actually one of them.
So we can specify service and then set it to Sendgrid.
All right?
And we actually did this before for Gmail
and with that all we needed to then pass in
was the user name and a password.
And so here is going to be exactly the same.
And that's the reason why we actually don't even need
to specify the Server and the Port, okay?
Because node mailer already knows this data
because is specifying this Sendgrid service.
So now, we just need to specify the authentication
and the user is at process.env.SENDGRID
USERNAME.
And now let's just duplicate this here
and here, pass.
Okay, and that's actually it.
And now to test this, let's create a new user
with a real email address.
So we go to Postman and let's close all of these here.
All right,
and so I will create "Jonas."
And now as the email address I will create one of these
disposable emails which is basically an email address
and an inbox for which we don't even have to sign up.
So, we're going to use the Mailsac service.
So that goes like that,
and so here we can now really put anything.
So let's just put "Jonas"
and then everyone can access this, all right?
So I will now register with this email address
and so the welcome email should then end up in this inbox.
And you of course, when you're testing this on your own
can of course use your own email address for this, okay?
So go ahead, create a user basically for yourself
with your own email address, and then hit "Send."
And so now our email should be sent using SendGrid.
And now that might take a little bit of time
but let's reload here, maybe it's already there.
And actually it's not.
So let's take a look at here our dashboard.
And from my experience,
this actually doesn't work right away.
So for example this "EMAILS TODAY" number here
always takes some time to actually update.
And also the first emails that you send,
they not always actually show up where they should.
So this behavior that we're seeing here is kind of normal.
But let's try this again, so we still got no email here.
But actually the reason for that is
that remember that this transport is only going to work
in production and so actually we need
to run our application in production.
Which right now we are not doing.
So let's now do that,
npm run start production,
and so let's now actually try that again.
So first I'm going to delete the user that we just created.
So it's this one here,
and actually let me delete all of these
that we don't really need,
so all these test users.
All right, and so now let's try this again
with this email address.
And that is still successful and now let's take again
a look at our email inbox.
We look that, and now we get one message!
So, when we open that, then here it is.
Now for some reason, this application
is doing something weird with this button here.
So it seems like they are applying
their own styles here to this email.
But nevermind, what matters here
is that it did actually worked.
And so now, we send our very first email
using Sendgrid to a real inbox.
Now let's just see if it actually shows up here as well.
But as I said, sometimes that takes sometime to show up.
So as I mentioned before, it still shows zero emails here
while in fact, we already sent and received one email.
Okay.
So great, so with this you can now send
up to one hundred free emails, I believe.
It says something here, yeah.
So with the trial, that you just started
I think it's even more,
it's like thousands of emails per day.
But the after some time, you get downgraded
to just one hundred.
So if you have a real app and a real company,
of course you'll have to pay for this one (mumble).
But then at that point, that's also no problem hopefully.
Anyway, this now wraps up our part about sending emails.
And in the rest of this (mumble), we're now gonna be talking
about accepting payments with credit cards
and creating bookings in our system.
So that is really really exciting and so,
I hope to see you there soon.